## Dispositions
Your character's disposition indicates, among other things, the way they
approach the world. Do they respect the laws of the lands that they travel
through or do they value freedom above all else? Disposition can be fluid, it
can change over time or dramatically in the wake of a significant or traumatic
event.

Below are common dispositions in {{book.product}}:

___Free.___ You don't like the be constrained by rules, regulations, or anything
that would impede your ability to live your life the way you want to. While this
disposition doesn't force a moral framework on your view of the world, you are
likely to extend your values to the people around you. If a community is being
subjected to tyranny a character who values freedom will step in to help free
them.

___Good.___ You have strong morals and virtues. You believe it is right to help
and protect those who are in need. This doesn't mean that you sacrifice your or
ignore your own needs, but you are more likely to put the well-being of others
before your own. In many ways this is the essence of a heroic character: the
village can't defend itself, so you choose to help them. While you may respect
the laws of the land, you do so with open eyes and don't follow the law blindly.
If the powers-that-be are abusing the law for their own benefit at the expense
of the people, their authority has crossed a line and a good character often
feels compelled to stand against it.

___Greed.___ You value something to excess, like material wealth or power. This
motivation influences your every decision: you're happy to protect the village,
provided someone is willing to pay. Your greed doesn't make you a bad person,
you simply have different values that sometimes paint you in an unfavorable
light compared to others.

___Indulgent.___ You have a tendency to cede to whatever whim catches your
fancy. You often seek experiences that will gratify you, satisfying a short term
desire. Indulgent characters can be very easy going, but if something doesn't
interest them they may take a different path.

___Lawful.___ You respect laws and codes, this may mean that you respect the
code of an individual or of the land that you're currently in. In general, you
are law-abiding&mdash;sometimes to a fault. You believe that the personal codes
of an individual and the laws of the realm are important and are loath to
violate them. Many characters with a lawful disposition firmly believe in
similar values as goodly characters, however their approach is often different.
