## Resting
During the course of a day characters, as well as other creatures, periodically
take a rest. A rest is a period of time where the character or creature limits
its activity. Characters can take any number of short rests throughout the day,
ending their day with a long rest.

### Short Rest
When you spend at least 1 hour resting, you gain the following benefits at the
end of the rest:

___Recover Health.___ You can spend one or more Stamina Die, up to your maximum
number of Stamina Dice, to recover health. For each Stamina Die spent, roll a D6
and add your Vitality modifier to it. You regain health equal to the total
(minimum of 1). After each Stamina Die is rolled, you can decide whether or not
to spend additional Stamina Dice.

___Treat Wounds.___ You can dress a creature's wounds, including your own.
Choose one creature, you reduce the number of wounds on that creature by 1 for
each Stamina Die that it spent to regain health.

### Long Rest
You end your day by taking a long rest, requiring at least 8 hours of nothing
more than light activity. You can't benefit from more than one long rest in a
24-hour period. A character that is dead or dying cannot benefit from a long
rest, it must be stabilized first (i.e. it must have at least 1 health).

During a long rest, characters usually sleep for at leasy 6 hours. If the long
rest is interrupted by strenuous activity such as one or more hours of walking,
fighting, casting magic, or similar activities the long rest must be restarted
from the beginning to gain any benefit from it. At the end of a long rest, you
gain the following benefits:

___Recover Health.___ You regain all lost health.

___Regain Stamina Dice.___ You regain spent Stamina Dice, up to a a number of
dice equal to half your character's level (minimum 1).

## Resting During Downtime
In addition to short and long rests that are taken throughout an adventure,
characters can take downtime between adventures. This extended period of rest
can be used to recuperate and prepare for the next adventure, but it can also be
used to spend time performing other tasks such as: running a business, crafting
items, performing research, training, or simply relaxing.

At the end of an adventure, the storyteller may award characters with a number
of days of downtime. Alternatively a storyteller may start the next adventure by
stating that a certain amount of time has passed. In either case, the
storyteller should allow characters the opportunity to declare how they spent
their downtime before the start of the next adventure.

### Downtime Activities

#### Crafting

#### Practicing a Profession

#### Recovery

#### Researching

#### Training