## Weapons
Every weapon in {{book.product}}, regardless of the game's genre, has the same
characteristics: cost, damage, and properties.

The **damage** that a weapon does has both a damage dice (e.g. 1d6) and a damage
type (e.g. slashing) component. This forms the basis for understanding how much
damage a weapon can deal when it is used to attack a creature.

Weapons also have **properties** that attribute certain traits to a weapon, such
as light, ranged, two-handed, etc. A list of properties can be found below.

### Weapon Properties

___Ammunition.___ Each time you make an attack with a weapon that uses
ammunition, you expend one piece of ammunition. Drawing ammunition, loading, and
making the attack with the weapon are all part of your attack if you are
proficient with the weapon. Depending on the ammunition, at the end of battle,
you may be able to recover some of your expended ammunition by taking 10 minutes
to search the battlefield. the weapon is part of your attack action A weapon
that uses ammunition 

___Finesse.___ When you make an attack with a finesse weapon you can choose to
use either your Strength or your Agility modifier when determining your bonus to
attack and damage rolls. You must use the same modifier for both rolls.

___Firearm.___

___Light.___ A light weapon is small and can be used at the same time as another
one-handed weapon. For more details see the rules on two-weapon fighting.

___Loading.___

___Ranged.___ When you make an attack with a ranged weapon, you use your Agility
modifier to determine your bonus to attack and damage rolls. A ranged weapon has
two ranges: the first is the weapon's normal range in feet, while the second is
the weapon's long range. You cannot attack a target beyond a weapon's long
range.

___Reach.___ A reach weapon adds the number of feet indicated in the parenthesis
to your reach when you attack with it. This property applies to all attacks,
inluding opportunity attacks.

___Special.___ This weapon has a special rules explained further in the weapon's
description.

___Thrown.___ A weapon with the thrown property may be use to make a ranged
attack by throwing the weapon. A thrown weapon uses your Strength modifier when
determining your bonus to attack and damage rolls. A thrown weapon has two
ranges: the first is the weapon's normal range in feet, while the second is the
weapon's long range. You cannot attack a target beyond a weapon's long range.

___Two-Handed.___ Attacking with a two-handed weapon requires two hands, you
cannot wield another weapon or wear a shield when you are wielding a two-handed
weapon in combat.

___Versatile.___ When you make an attack with a versatile weapon, you can wield
the weapon either one-handed or two-handed. If wielded with two hands, the
weapon deals the damage indicated in parenthesis. For example a quarterstaff
deals 1d6 bludgeoning damage if wielded one-handed, but when wielded with two
hands it deals 1d8 bludgeoning damage.

{{#include ../equipment/fantasy-weapons.md}}
